# Q1 CS Reflections

### 1. List and describe at least 5 topics that we discussed in class that you know very well. Each description should be at least 1 paragraph with twoto five sentences.
1. **Arithmetic Operations** - what is often used in programs that require calculation. These operations have been constantly taught and repeated since Grade 7, so by now I'm pretty confident in using them.
2. **Comparison Operators** - operators like greater than and less then are concepts we were taught since elementary, so it was a really easy concept to pick up. Although there were some new operators introduced that I had never seen before like the difference between =, == and ===, I still very much enjoyed learning and understanding how they worked!
3. **If else statements** -  a concept that was continously practiced and taught since grade 7, so it's very much second nature for me to use it. I've learned that even in scenarios where the problem reccomends you to solve it one way, there are ALWAYS multiple solutions. SO when I can't figure out how to make a for loop work for example, a fallback I often have it the statement I'm most confident in using: the if else statement.
4. **Switch case**- is another type of "variation" of the if else statement. I've learned about switch case since grade 8 but only started using it in my codes during grade 9. It really helped me deepen my understanding and knowledge of CS. It allowed me to be creative in coming up with solutions to the exercises and Long Test codes.
5. **How to display an output**- is different in each programming language, but I quickly picked up on how to use it. From cout to document.write and console.log made me realize that different languages have different keywords but they follow the same structure. So as long as you understand the concept of how to code in one language, you will be able to be versatile and switch from one to the other.

### 2. List at least 5 topics that you know and can describe but needs further practice/discussion and why.  The why should be per topic listed.  
1. **Loop Control Structures** - is a topic I've dealt with since grade 7 and over the years I've slowly started piecing together how it works, but I wouldm't say I'm fully confident in it. I would need more practice because until now I still can't fully comprehend how a for loop in a for loop works, like in the yearly triangle made of stars example. I want to master coding loops since it's a very easy and simple concept that I still haven't wrapped my head around completely just yet.
2. **Native Functions** - there are just too many native functions out there that are often used during the practice exercise examples that I'm not too familiar with using. We may practice using custom functions, but native functions isn't talked about enough in class so I hope we can touch more on them.
3. **Using html and Javascript hand in hand** - the first few exercises in class that required html confused me quite a lot since I wasn't used to it. In the later exercises where only javascript was required, the codes made a lot more sense to me.Until this day I know it helps display the code on the webpage but I still don't fully understand the concept.
4. **Declaring custom functions** - is a topic I'm also familiar with from past year levels, but is something I haven't mastered yet. Every year I see it and it confuses me because of the argument and parameters specifically. I'm not used to including those in my codes although I can understand it when I read it from someone else's code. 
5. **Event Handlers** - was used for the button in our first few graded exercises but it's difficult for me to remember. It was only brought up in about 2 exercises so as weeks passed by I did forget how to use/write them since it wasn't being practiced enough. 

### 3. Describe what will be your plan of action in order to help yourself in understanding further the topics listed on the second items
1. **Taking time to practice once a week** = even the slightest bit of practice coding something I'm still confused with every week helps deepen understanding and critical thinking. The more you practice, the more the concepts are ingrained in your memory and become second nature. Once you fully master the basics, you can start to learn and master the more complicated skills.
2. **Reading about concepts I'm confused with online** - there are many online websites that address the misconceptions and misunderstandings of coding. Reading more about the lesson from other sources instead of just learning what was taught in class, helps you learn some tips and tricks that you could use moving forward. 
3. **Find a mentor to help you improve** - my dad is a programmer, so I find it very helpful when I can ask him questions about how he would reccommend I tackle a certain problem. He could also point out where I made mistakes in my code and guide me through the problem so I could understand how to solve them on my own in the future.

### 4. In the activities that were done in class, list at least 2 that you think were effective and at least 2 that you think not effective in helping you understand topics in our course and why?
1. **Long Tests** - are very effective for me because they test my knowledge, speed and creativity with coming up for a solution to the problem. The 2 separate parts of the long test test different aspects of CS. The conceptualizing and understanding in Part 1 and putting those into practice during the Part 2 coding segment. 
2. **Graded Coding Exercises** - are also very effective because it allows me to think and come up with a solution to the problem at my own pace. It allows me to experiment and find new solutions to problems that I couldn't possibly do with a time limit like in an exam. 
3. **None** - were ineffective. Every single exercise and assessment in CS helped me understand and appreciate the thought and creativity that goes into being a programmer. It helped me grasp concepts, learn new things and fall in love with coding again.